# Planning and Preproduction: Aligning your Audience, Stakeholders, and Data
## Introduction:
Welcome to the first module of this course! In the following modules, you will learn and work with concepts, tips, and techniques to help you explore data, identify meaningful findings, and then explain them through the power of data visualization and storytelling. In this module, you will be able to determine the who, what, why, and how of the story and discover the importance of planning before you start. You will be able to interview your stakeholders and assess your audience to find the right story in the data. By the end of this module, you will be able to define what a story is and build a basic framework for presenting your story. Let's get started!

## Readings:
* This recommended reading provides some scientific explanation for why and how humans make decisions for reasons other than pure logic and facts.  Emotion, behavioral factors, and psychological factors also play an important role in decision making, and this article touches on why we believe that to be true. Dawes, Robyn M., [A Message From Psychologists to Economists: Mere Predictability Doesn’t Matter Like it Should (Without a Good Story Appended to it)](http://pages.ucsd.edu/~aronatas/project/academic/dawes%20on%20narratives.pdf), Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization Vol. 39 (1999) 29-40
* This article examines the intersection of emotion and storytelling in the context of human decision making.  While this article focuses on the marketing context, much of the underlying information is true for storytelling across all disciplines. Luhn, Matthew, How to Put More Emotion in Storytelling: Digital Advertisers Have Forgotten How to Make People Feel Something, Advertising Age, 2016 (http://adage.com/article/digitalnext/put-emotion-storytelling/304463/)
* This article from the VP of Research and Design at Tableau Software, Jock Mackinlay, confirms the importance of storytelling in making a human connection with data. The article provides some useful considerations for crafting data stories and reinforces many of the techniques included in this lesson. Mackinlay, Jock, Kosara, Robert, Wallace, Michelle, [Data Storytelling: Using Visualization to Share the Human Impact of Numbers, Tableau Software](https://www.tableau.com/learn/whitepapers/data-storytelling-using-visualization-share-human-impact-numbers) (Mackinlay, Jock, Kosara, Robert, Wallace, Michelle, Data Storytelling: Using Visualization to Share the Human Impact of Numbers, Tableau)
* This Harvard Business Review article emphasizes among other things, the importance of considering the audience when crafting data stories.  Think about how the author describes the various audience profiles, and how you might incorporate that into your design checklist. Strikeleather, Jim, How to Tell a Story With Data, Harvard Business Review, 2013 (https://hbr.org/2013/04/how-to-tell-a-story-with-data)

## Others:
[Project Brief](./files/Project_Brief.md)

## Dashboards:
* [Tale of 100 Entrepreneurs – Decisive Data](https://www.tableau.com/solutions/gallery/tale-100-entrepreneurs)
